# Cherenkov-Sensor
Calibration of Cherenkov detectors for the Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment

### Project Description
For my final year project, I worked on the Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment under the supervision of Prof. Paul Soler to identify Pion Contamination within the Muon Collider in Appleton.
Using C++ I worked through terabytes of signal processing and time series data, successfully identifying and isolating Pion contamination within the collider with the aid of time-of-flight and Cherenkov detectors. Fixed discrepancies and discontinuities within the Muon data and massively reduced pion contamination.
### Research Abstract
Accelerator physics has made significant technological leaps in the last few decades. Muon colliders offer a specially attractive option for future high-energy colliders which can lead to new and interesting discoveries. The Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment (MICE) aims to prove the feasability of muon colliders and neutrino factories for future research by reducing the phase-space in a muon beam via ionisation cooling. This report details the calibration of Cherenkov detectors present within the MICE apparatus in order to complement the Time- Of-Flight detectors in particle identification. Data chosen to perform the calibration of the Cherenkov detectors consists of pion momentum scans in a range of 140 MeV - 400 MeV. For each pion momentum scan distinguishable peaks in time-of-flight are observed, with varying degrees of overlap between the peaks. For pion scans in a higher momentum range, there was a noticeable contamination in the pion samples due to muons. Plots of number of photoelectrons (NP E ) as a function of momentum p(MeV) were generated and it was observed that the muon Cherenkov threshold was lower than the pion Cherenkov threshold. Muons were found to emit a larger number of photons than pions did for the same momentum.
